in today's video we will be going
through the 1996 american
post-apocalyptic sci-fi film escape from
l.a sport is a hedge you have been
warned make sure to give this video a
thumbs up comment on what your favorite
part was and subscribe to our channel
for more
it's the year 1998 los angeles has
become extremely cried ridden and
decadent the government is forced to
ultimately place it under the direct
control of the newly created united
states police force two years later on
august 23 2000 a massive earthquake
strikes wrecking the whole city as a
result of the earthquake the san
fernando valley floods turning the los
angeles area into an island from malibu
to anaheim a theocratic presidential
candidate named adam declares los
angeles to be sinful and punished by god
when he is elected president for life he
relocates the capital to his hometown in
lynchburg virginia the newly elected
president turns the united states into a
theocratic totalitarian state and
announces the new moral america law his
laws ban things such as tobacco
alcoholic beverages recreational drugs
red meat firearms profanity atheism
non-christian religions and extramarital
sex those found guilty of indulging in
these things or activities are stripped
of their citizenship and deported to los
angeles island unless they repent and
choose death by electrocution safe to
say that if we were living in president
adams america most of us would be
rotting in the prison island right now
the island is surrounded by a
containment wall with armed guards and
watch towers everywhere those sent to
the island are exiled permanently it's
now the year 2013 a man named bob snake
pliskin is brought to firebase 7 the
deportation center for los angeles
island amid heavy security and a huge
media presence bliskin is considered the
most infamous outlaw in the history of
the united states convicted of 27 moral
crimes however pliskin was once
considered a war hero who served in the
u.s special forces and rescued the
previous american president during an
army operation armed men escort pliskin
into the premises inside the loud and
chaotic facility a female officer slits
pliskin's hand with a strange sharp
object attached to her finger pliskin
doesn't think much of it and is then
taken to a room and two officers and a
man in a suit follow him pliskin quickly
realizes that the government wants
something out of him the female officer
then reveals that last wednesday a group
of government officials including the
president's daughter utopia were touring
benford space defense lab utopia somehow
managed to steal a top secret prototype
in a black box and boarded the air force
3 plane and hijacked it for the
uninitiated air force 3 is supposed to
be an air traffic control sign held by
any united states air force aircraft
carrying the third most important person
in the united states much like air force
one which carries the most important
person in the u.s the president utopia
then recorded a message denouncing the
president and threatening the use of the
top secret prototype unless the
president opens american borders
allowing all incarcerated people on the
island back to the country using the
escape pod on the plane she then fled to
la the government sent a five-man rescue
team within a few hours of landing all
but one were killed upon further
investigation government found utopia's
connections to a man named cuervo jones
a shining path peruvian revolutionary he
seduced the president's daughter utopia
via a holographic system and brainwashed
her into stealing the black box pliskin
is to retrieve the box but he refuses to
help after he has denied information
about the contents of the top secret
black box the man in the suit then
reveals that he is the president
he tells pliskin if he does as he says
pliskin will receive a pardon for every
immoral act he has committed and
indicates he does not care about
utopia's return declaring her a traitor
pliskin still rejects the offer piss
commander mac malloy reveals that
pliskin will be injected with a
genetically engineered plutoxin 7 virus
which causes a complete nervous system
breakdown making one bleed out like a
stuck pig pliskin threatens to kill
anyone who comes near him to inject him
with any such thing the female officer
then reveals that she already injected
him with a virus in the hallway and
activates the countdown of the designer
virus
god she is ruthless pliskin learns that
he has 10 hours to live but there's an
antidote that neutralizes the virus
immediately upon injection pissed
pliskin attacks president adam but
quickly realizes that he was talking to
a hologram left with no choice pliskin
is forced to cooperate it's then
revealed that la is being primed as a
beachhead for an invasion of the us
cuervo jones's shining path group wants
to take over north america and has
united third world nations carrying an
assault rifle a personal holographic
projector a thermal camouflage overcoat
and a countdown clock snake pliskin
sneaks into the city using a one-man
submarine he loses the submarine when
the platform it lands on crumbles
causing it to sink different parts of
the island are run by various groups and
gangs moreover earthquakes are very
common and frequent on the island there
he meets a surfer named pipeline the
surfer is an admirer of pliskin's
glorious criminal career and directs him
to his destination bliskin reaches the
hollywood bowl where the last surviving
member of the rescue team is kept using
the tracker in his watch he locates the
man only to find his dead body in a
hotel being used by a gang as
recreational target practice blisskin
then asks a woman at the hotel about
cuervo's whereabouts and heads straight
towards sunset boulevard at the
boulevard pliskin comes across the
extravagant cuervo riding in a
convertible with utopia by his side and
a motorcade following him he invites
everyone to the happy kingdom for the
last party before he invades the united
states pliskin subverts one of the
motorcyclists in his motorcade and
follows him he soon catches cuervo and
his men's attention while unsuccessfully
shooting cuervo causing an explosion
cuervo recognizes pliskin and
astonishingly watches his pliskin jumps
from one vehicle to another killing his
men one by one getting closer and closer
to him a furious cuervo traps pliskin in
a bolus making him fall on the ground
bolas is a type of throwing weapon made
of weights on the ends of interconnected
cords used to capture animals by
entangling their legs he then orders his
men to finish pliskin and continues to
head towards the party pliskin easily
takes out his men but flees immediately
when more of cuervo's men arrive
forgetting his leather coke containing
his weapons on the ground it's then
picked up and worn by one of cuervo's
men pliskin then runs into map to the
stars eddie he sells interactive tours
for a living after learning of pliskin's
destination eddie directs bliskin
towards beverly hills while passing
through beverly hills pliskin is
followed by the goons of the surgeon
general of beverly hills to steal his
eyes and skin bruce campbell has a cameo
in the film as the surgeon general of
beverly hills campbell and kurt russell
share the same stunt double named john
casino he had been doubling for both of
them for several years before this film
and still does it for them to this day a
woman named tassima helps him get away
through the drainage tunnel as he
continues his journey pliskin again runs
into eddie who offers to give him a lift
to cuervo's palace in his car when
pliskin gets distracted eddie injects
him with
darts and sedates him eddie reveals that
he is cuervo's agent and they are in
cuervo's car the interactive tour seller
eddie had deliberately sent pliskin
through beverly hills to get him killed
at the hands of the surgeon general talk
about an interactive tour pliskin then
gains consciousness in cuervo's palace
tied up eddie informs cuervo's men that
plskin was sent by the us government to
look for the black box and utopia
pliskin then overhears one of cuervo's
technology experts talking about the
remote control unit in the black box the
instruction disk in the rc connects to
the sword of damocles the ultimate
defensive satellite weapon system the
remote is capable of rendering all
electronic devices like cars airplanes
toasters computers and even batteries
anywhere on the planet useless using the
remote one can pinpoint an accurate
target like a taxi cab in buenos aires
or the entire country of spain the
device can shut down the whole planet
and send it back to the dark ages
president adam gets restless as he loses
communication with pliskin he expresses
his intention to bomb the island but
commander malloy warns him that upon
seeing the u.s aircraft flying towards
the island cuervo could easily take down
the aircraft and the entire united
states with the push of one button are
you noticing that the movie was filmed
almost entirely at night in fact the
production went 70 days without a
daylight shoot
cuervo then goes live on television with
a message for the u.s president he shuts
down lynchburg the u.s capitol as
retaliation for sending plskin to kill
him he then threatens to shut down the
entire u.s if his demands are not
fulfilled he then demands a police
chopper to carry him out of the island
at the happy kingdom by 5 am
now in control of the satellites cuervo
intends to take over the u.s with an
allied invasion force of third world
nations that are prepared to attack the
president has lost all hope however
commander malloy is still hopeful after
seeing pliskin alive in the background
of cuervo's live address
after the broadcast pliskin is taken to
an arena with a massive crowd for
cuervo's infamous deadly basketball
challenge cuervo intends to fulfill his
promise to the audience of one last
spectacle of death in the historic arena
with the death of the mighty snake
pliskin the blood-hungry crowd cheers as
pliskin enters the basketball court
surrounded by armed men pliskin must
shoot the basketball into the two hoops
alternately between a 10 second shot
clock the ball must be shot exactly when
the 10 second buzzer goes off each
basket equals 2 points and pliskin must
score 10 points in total missing a shot
breaking a rule or losing the game will
result in pliskin being sprayed with
bullets by the surrounding guards cuervo
starts the timer and pliskin scores
comfortably initially but eventually he
starts getting tired and begins to
struggle by the end pliskin lags behind
but he manages to score by throwing the
ball into the hoop directly from one end
winning the challenge a victorious
pliskin proceeds to leave the court when
cuervo starts to shoot at him from the
stand as the armed guards just watch
tired of cuervo's bloodshed utopia
prevents him from shooting pliskin
cuervo adaman pushes her aside and
proceeds to shoot when another
earthquake aftershock strikes and he
fails to aim correctly pliskin manages
to run away cuervo again sends eddie to
kill pliskin and heads towards the happy
kingdom with utopia however pliskin
subdues eddie and takes him hostage
eddie quickly changes his loyalty and
takes bliskin to someone named hershey
las palmas she is a transgender woman
who was formerly carjacked malone a past
criminal associate of pliskin to get
into character as a transgender woman
actress pam greer would put a sock in
her pants during shooting pliskin offers
to help hershey and her men flee the
island if she collaborates with him
during their conversation hershey
jokingly reveals that the plutoxin 7
virus is a lie that is frequently used
by the us government to intimidate
people into cooperating meanwhile cuervo
arrives at the happy kingdom amid
fanfare and announces that the invasion
has begun
this happy kingdom set was actually the
town square from back to the future in
1985 at universal it was initially
supposed to be disneyland but disney
didn't give them permission the warships
have left cuba and are estimated to
reach florida in 45 minutes the u.s
government helicopter soon arrives at
the venue cuervo and utopia proceed to
board the chopper when eddie comes
flying in a hand glider after landing he
stalls cuervo and distracts his men
letting plisken and his team come flying
in hang gliders and launch a surprise
attack a deadly battle follows pliskin
lands on cuervo and they begin beating
each other up pliskin eventually takes
the remote control from him and knocks
him out pliskin retrieves his leather
coat and boards the chopper with eddie
hershey and her men if the hero doesn't
miraculously retrieve his lost fancy
leather coat is it even a hollywood
movie utopia also boards the chopper and
pleads with pliskin to take her back
with him pliskin then takes back the
real remote control from eddie who would
exchange it with his fake one while
stalling cuervo as the chopper takes off
it's bombarded with bullets upon
noticing cuervo proceeding to shoot down
the chopper with a handheld
surface-to-air rocket launcher eddie
shoots cuervo dead but not before he
fires the rocket seeing the rocket
headed towards the chopper eddie jumps
out of the helicopter landing safely on
an awning as the helicopter flies away
when the rocket hits the chopper it
kills everyone inside including hershey
when the president's men reach the crash
site pliskin remains alive even after
his countdown clock reaches zero without
taking any antidote realizing that
plutoxin 7 is only a potent influenza
virus whose effects wear off within
hours of infection the soldiers
apprehend utopia live near the crash
site and bring her to the president
surprised to see her alive the president
promises to finish pliskin's job himself
later and proceeds to retrieve the
remote control from pliskin however
finding utopia alive and running away
from the crash site commander malloy
suspects the pliskin is trying to trick
the president by giving him the wrong
remote he checks utopia's pocket to find
another remote control after checking
the disk inside commander molloy
announces that they will take the one
the utopia unknowingly held the
president orders his men to take utopia
to the electorate chair despite her
pleas for forgiveness and proceeds to
address the world live on television he
demands an immediate retreat of all
forces advancing to attack the united
states he threatens to destroy each such
country's ability to function
permanently upon learning of cuba's
continued aggression the president tries
to use the satellites to stop a cuban
invasion force threatening florida after
activating the remote he learns that
it's fake and hears eddie's cheerful map
to the star's interactive tour intro
angered at his public humiliation the
president orders his men to shoot
pliskin and retrieve the real remote
from him at commander malloy's command
the soldiers spray pliskin with bullets
but pliskin stands unscathed they
realize that the real pliskin isn't
there and it's his hologram commander
malloy proceeds to send his men to look
for pliskin within a half-mile radius
when pliskin draws the real remote
control the president asks bliskin
whether he is going to choose the third
world or america snake says the more
things change the more they stay the
same and activates the remote control
and enters the world code and ends all
technological activity on the entire
planet at the deportation center utopia
rejoices that snake shut down the earth
and thus saved her snake lights a
cigarette and blows out the match used
to light it uttering welcome to the
human race
although this movie didn't perform so
well commercially during its release it
gained a strong cult following over time
thanks for watching make sure to like
the video if you enjoyed it and
subscribe to the channel to see more of
these movie summaries